In this scene, the illustration shows the Mughal Army which is controlled by Emperor Akbar, undergoing a raid on the Rajput fortress-
of Ranthambhor in 1569.
This piece made by Khem Karan, is part of a historic chronicle called the Akbarnama, which is named after Emperor Akbar.
The emperor Rai Surjan Hada who ruled the Rajput fortress, had executed the brother of emperor Akbar, due to a failed trade deal
that the emperor Rai Surjan Hada had invested alot of money and time into.
The murder infuriated Akbar, and he planned this raid for several days after his brothers death, and the plans of leading the raid.
This raid however was expected by emperor Rai Surjan Hada, and had prepared well before the raid.
As noted in the Akbarnama by Abdul Fazl, that emperor Rai Surjan Hada had strengthened his fort in various ways-
and had provisioned it, and having prepared for this raid.
This is the story of the ill-fated battle that Emperor Akbar had conducted, in order to take revenge for his brothers murder.
In this scene, emperor Akbar is seen wearing the white robe on top of the cliff, ordering his army to shoot at the Rajput fortress while leading the raid.
The white robe is noted by the fortress troops, and they start to focus their aim towards emperor Akbar.
The scene paints a vivid picture of the battle, with smoke from the guns of the soldiers as they shoot the fortress.
Emperor Akbar hopes that with his troops shooting at the Rajput fort that its citizens and infrastructure will surrender, along with emperor
Rai Surjan Hada.
The fault of emperor Akbar is that he fails to take in the fact, that the Rajput fort has a wall and built-in cannons-
that prove to be superior, to emperor Akbar's soldiers and ammunition. As described in the Akbarnama by Abdul Fazl,
The Rajput fort soldiers were active in firing cannons, like a thunderbolt of wrath and burnt up the life harvest of the ill-fated enemy.
Therefore, emperor Akbar is seen talking to his generals about possible strategies to get around the wall and cannons on the cliff.
While several soldiers are seen below, appear frightened of the fort and its cannons.
In this scene, it illustrates the continued raid of the Akbar forces on the Rajput fort of emperor Rai Surjan Hada.
As emperor Akbar's forces have begun to travel down the cliff, and march toward the Rajput fort.
But as they travel, they encounter several townspeople and become distracted by their barrage of insults and violence.
This creates a problem in emperor Akbar's plans to raid the Rajput fort, which is motivated to take revenge for the murder of his brother.
All townspeople such as farmers, ironsmiths, cooks, merchants, came into the middle of the town.
Were responsible for the distraction of the Akbar soldiers, the townspeople disliked the Akbar kingdom, due to past differences and impressions-
of being a tyrant, so they were loyal to emperor Rai Surjan Hada, no matter the circumstance.
With the townspeople increasing in number, the Akbar soldiers were worried about not making it to the fort.
With the sudden outburst of townspeople, they continued to march but ended up with little success, so they decided to retreat back to the hill-
and informed emperor Akbar what had happened. In this scene, the Rajput fort is seen firing cannons at Akbar forces on the other cliff.
This scene also shows the high walls that surround the fort on the cliff, making it unconquerable on foot.
The fort also shows no civilians inside, which implies that the fort is still safe and yet to be attacked on foot by Akbar forces.
While the Akbar soldiers inform emperor Akbar what had happened in the town on the march to the Rajput fort, emperor Akbar is struck by a cannon blast and falls of his horse!
After the sudden injury to emperor Akbar, all Akbar soldiers surrender and rush to help emperor Akbar and carry him off the cliff in a carriage.
As the carriage rushes away from the battle, the doctors in the carriage come to find that emperor Akbar is missing an arm, and perfusely bleeding while in excruciating pain.
The doctors of emperor Akbar panic, and they start to pray.
As they continue to travel to the medical center in the carriage, hoping that they can still stop the bleeding and save emperor Akbar's life.
The news of emperor Akbar's injuries travels to emperor Rai Surjan Hada of the Rajput fort, and he starts to celebrate with his family in his palace.
Just as they arrive to the medical center, emperor Akbar's doctors come and rush Akbar into the medical center, But as they enter...
Emperor Akbar breathes his last breath and passes away in front of the medical center.
While the doctors repeatedly call his name with no avail, the doctors finally give up and pronounce him dead on arrival.
Everyone mourns, as emperor Akbar is quickly covered up and carried inside.